README.md, before:

# dead-csharp

![Check](
https://github.com/mristin/dead-csharp/workflows/Check/badge.svg
) [![Coverage Status](
https://coveralls.io/repos/github/mristin/dead-csharp/badge.svg)](
https://coveralls.io/github/mristin/dead-csharp
) [![Nuget](
https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/DeadCsharp)](
https://www.nuget.org/packages/DeadCsharp
)

Dead-csharp detects and removes dead code written in C# comments.

Dead code makes the readability and maintainability of your code base suffer:

* First, commented code is **confusing**: was it commented out on purpose or did
a developer simply forget to uncomment it after debugging?

* Second, commented code is **hard to read**: you have to parse between
the actual code and commented code all the time. Oftentimes, the dead code
is very similar to the actual code.

* Third, commented code makes **diff'ing harder**: since it is often similar
to previous code, dead code in comments will mislead tools such as `diff` and
`git diff`.

Thus dead code is bad for your code base and should be removed.

### Related Tools

At the time of writing (2020-06-19), there was not a single actively maintained
tool available to detect dead C# code in comments.

* [StyleCop](https://github.com/StyleCop/StyleCop) provides a couple of related
  checks which might serve as a heurisic (see [Stylecop's list of rules](
  https://documentation.help/StyleCop/
  )). However, the project is not maintained any more (
  see [this section in Stylecop's readme](
  https://github.com/StyleCop/StyleCop#considerations)).

* [StyleCopAnalyzers](https://github.com/DotNetAnalyzers/StyleCopAnalyzers) is
  a follow-up project of StyleCop based on Roslyn. It provides a rich set of 
  rules (see [their documentation](
  https://github.com/DotNetAnalyzers/StyleCopAnalyzers/blob/master/DOCUMENTATION.md
  )), but they provide no the rule to fire on dead code in comments.
  
* [Resharper CLI](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/resharper/InspectCode.html
  ) is a powerful tool for code inspection. While it does provide a heuristic
  to detect *unreachable* code, this heuristic does not detect code in the
  comments (see [Resharper's list of relevant code inspections](
  https://www.jetbrains.com/help/resharper/Reference__Code_Inspections_CSHARP.html#CodeRedundancy
  )).

## Installation

Dead-csharp is available as a dotnet tool.

Either install it globally:

```bash
dotnet tool install -g DeadCsharp
```

or locally (if you use tool manifest, see [this Microsoft tutorial](
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/local-tools-how-to-use)):

```bash
dotnet tool install DeadCsharp
```

## Usage

You run dead-csharp through `dotnet`.

To obtain help:

```bash
dotnet dead-csharp --help
```

You specify which files need to be checked using glob patterns:

```bash
dotnet dead-csharp --inputs "SomeProject/**/*.cs"
```

Multiple patterns are also possible *(we use '\\' for line continuation here)*:

```bash
dotnet dead-csharp \
    --inputs "SomeProject/**/*.cs" \
        "AnotherProject/**/*.cs"
```

If you want to remove the comments with dead code automatically, supply
`--remove`:

```bash
dotnet dead-csharp \
    --inputs "SomeProject/**/*.cs" \
    --remove
```

### Excludes

Sometimes you need to exclude files from check, *e.g.*, when your solution
contains generated code or where you are certain that the dead code is intentional.

You can provide the glob pattern for the files to be excluded with `--excludes`:

```bash
dotnet dead-csharp \
    --inputs "**/*.cs" \
    --excludes "**/obj/**"
```

If you want to exclude the checks within regions of a source file, you can write
special comments `// dead-csharp on` and `// dead-csharp off`:

```cs
// ...

    // dead-csharp off
    if(something) 
    {
        // deadCode();
    }
    // dead-csharp on

// ...
```

If you want to disable the checks for the whole file, simply write 
`// dead-csharp off` at the begining:

```cs
// dead-csharp off

using System;
// ...
```

Mind that dead-csharp ignores comments starting with `///` by design so you can
freely use code in your structured comments.

## Contributing

Feature requests, bug reports *etc.* are highly welcome! Please [submit
a new issue](https://github.com/mristin/dead-csharp/issues/new).

If you want to contribute in code, please see
[CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Versioning

We follow [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/spec/v1.0.0.html).
The version X.Y.Z indicates:

* X is the major version (backward-incompatible w.r.t. detection logic),
* Y is the minor version (backward-compatible), and
* Z is the patch version (backward-compatible bug fix).

Commit message:

Show help overview in Readme (#18)
This patch gives the reader an overview of the command-line arguments
based on the output produced with `--help`.

An additional script verifies that the output of the program actually
coincides with the readme.

README.md, after:

# dead-csharp

![Check](
https://github.com/mristin/dead-csharp/workflows/Check/badge.svg
) [![Coverage Status](
https://coveralls.io/repos/github/mristin/dead-csharp/badge.svg)](
https://coveralls.io/github/mristin/dead-csharp
) [![Nuget](
https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/DeadCsharp)](
https://www.nuget.org/packages/DeadCsharp
)

Dead-csharp detects and removes dead code written in C# comments.

Dead code makes the readability and maintainability of your code base suffer:

* First, commented code is **confusing**: was it commented out on purpose or did
a developer simply forget to uncomment it after debugging?

* Second, commented code is **hard to read**: you have to parse between
the actual code and commented code all the time. Oftentimes, the dead code
is very similar to the actual code.

* Third, commented code makes **diff'ing harder**: since it is often similar
to previous code, dead code in comments will mislead tools such as `diff` and
`git diff`.

Thus dead code is bad for your code base and should be removed.

### Related Tools

At the time of writing (2020-06-19), there was not a single actively maintained
tool available to detect dead C# code in comments.

* [StyleCop](https://github.com/StyleCop/StyleCop) provides a couple of related
  checks which might serve as a heurisic (see [Stylecop's list of rules](
  https://documentation.help/StyleCop/
  )). However, the project is not maintained any more (
  see [this section in Stylecop's readme](
  https://github.com/StyleCop/StyleCop#considerations)).

* [StyleCopAnalyzers](https://github.com/DotNetAnalyzers/StyleCopAnalyzers) is
  a follow-up project of StyleCop based on Roslyn. It provides a rich set of 
  rules (see [their documentation](
  https://github.com/DotNetAnalyzers/StyleCopAnalyzers/blob/master/DOCUMENTATION.md
  )), but they provide no the rule to fire on dead code in comments.
  
* [Resharper CLI](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/resharper/InspectCode.html
  ) is a powerful tool for code inspection. While it does provide a heuristic
  to detect *unreachable* code, this heuristic does not detect code in the
  comments (see [Resharper's list of relevant code inspections](
  https://www.jetbrains.com/help/resharper/Reference__Code_Inspections_CSHARP.html#CodeRedundancy
  )).

## Installation

Dead-csharp is available as a dotnet tool.

Either install it globally:

```bash
dotnet tool install -g DeadCsharp
```

or locally (if you use tool manifest, see [this Microsoft tutorial](
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/local-tools-how-to-use)):

```bash
dotnet tool install DeadCsharp
```

## Usage

You run dead-csharp through `dotnet`.

To obtain an overview of the command-line arguments, use `--help`:

```bash
dotnet dead-csharp --help
```
<!--- Help starts. -->
```
DeadCsharp:
  Examines the C# code for dead code in the comments.

Usage:
  DeadCsharp [options]

Options:
  -i, --inputs <inputs> (REQUIRED)    Glob patterns of the files to be inspected
  -e, --excludes <excludes>           Glob patterns of the files to be excluded from inspection
  -r, --remove                        If set, removes the comments suspected to contain dead code
  --version                           Show version information
  -?, -h, --help                      Show help and usage information
```
<!--- Help ends. -->

You specify which files need to be checked using glob patterns:

```bash
dotnet dead-csharp --inputs "SomeProject/**/*.cs"
```

Multiple patterns are also possible *(we use '\\' for line continuation here)*:

```bash
dotnet dead-csharp \
    --inputs "SomeProject/**/*.cs" \
        "AnotherProject/**/*.cs"
```

If you want to remove the comments with dead code automatically, supply
`--remove`:

```bash
dotnet dead-csharp \
    --inputs "SomeProject/**/*.cs" \
    --remove
```

### Excludes

Sometimes you need to exclude files from check, *e.g.*, when your solution
contains generated code or where you are certain that the dead code is intentional.

You can provide the glob pattern for the files to be excluded with `--excludes`:

```bash
dotnet dead-csharp \
    --inputs "**/*.cs" \
    --excludes "**/obj/**"
```

If you want to exclude the checks within regions of a source file, you can write
special comments `// dead-csharp on` and `// dead-csharp off`:

```cs
// ...

    // dead-csharp off
    if(something) 
    {
        // deadCode();
    }
    // dead-csharp on

// ...
```

If you want to disable the checks for the whole file, simply write 
`// dead-csharp off` at the begining:

```cs
// dead-csharp off

using System;
// ...
```

Mind that dead-csharp ignores comments starting with `///` by design so you can
freely use code in your structured comments.

## Contributing

Feature requests, bug reports *etc.* are highly welcome! Please [submit
a new issue](https://github.com/mristin/dead-csharp/issues/new).

If you want to contribute in code, please see
[CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Versioning

We follow [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/spec/v1.0.0.html).
The version X.Y.Z indicates:

* X is the major version (backward-incompatible w.r.t. detection logic),
* Y is the minor version (backward-compatible), and
* Z is the patch version (backward-compatible bug fix).
